a ball of fuzz almost. bill went back
a big surprise. he lasted weeks, which was
a final destination, and i half 
a golden christ drags a club foot
a hole, duct taped for years
a pewter flask, some woman sitting on his lap
a place where men piddle
a spring storm flung a limb in
a thing he could repair
a thing to disassemble and diagnose
about begging to fix a window 
against his right side, swirls in front and behind
against the water, his shirt sticking to his chest
also meant chocolate bunnies
an impossible orange moon
an orderly burning of fuel and air
and against the mud sticking to his feet, kicks 
and as the hours pass it grows
and dashed to the den
and exhales sphinx moths:
and i see it whole again
and kicks through the constraint of soaked jeans 
and maybe one of the girls or the boys
and on the eastern wall, jesus limps toward calvary
and the naked torso spotted 
and they hadn’t money for chemo
and when the drive kicked off
and, senses buzzing, she breaks
and—two bubbles conjoined—
around the block, to listen to it purr
as a burnt marshmallow. he didn’t
as did sharla thompson’s laughter. when
as earth rolls over in its sleep
as garth from wayne’s world said
as i drive the five hours home 
as if in a sci-fi fantasy
as if the cross weren’t enough
as it broke in my mouth
as long as he can work
asleep on the back seat
at eight o’clock on a friday night
before my nephews dyed them
begging for mercy. ieds erupt. boys fall in slow-mo
beneath the calls of birds, a placid drone 
beneath the hood of a crown vic
between cylinders and pistons
bill quit going years ago
bill was no deacon, was never there
burst over the bridge while his father swigged 
but as garth from wayne’s world said
but esther green raised a stink
but the color of eggshells
but the pastor took esther’s side
but watching it now i recall
by midnight, the moon is tiny
cars aren’t like people
children asleep in the next room
cilantro on the altar, a sacrifice
cleaning spark plugs and gaskets
closes back around his left. i am a scab 
clutch or busted fuel pump—fix it
cold stares. at the edge 
come winter--dawn and dusk--
compressed inside a shiny wrist-sized capsule
confound and bewilder me, women
crawls over the horizon
cut beside a swamp
dad kept stored in the attic
did she like me? no. yes. how to
didn’t laugh except at my jokes
down past the donut shop, then 
dressing their knotted limbs
drifting up into the sky
enthralled, of a woman in love
even just sitting, smoking his camels; 
every year of me in a clip-on tie
expect to see a sign: moon 36 miles
feeling for cracks
floating through the plaque clogging it up
floyd unlaces his boots. he wades in up to his knees
follow me in to help with lunch
for a few minutes it appears
from communion this morning	
from over at cotton creek. he urges them 
from the albuquerque airport 
from the levee he’d heard the low roar 
from the refinery will say a few words
full of knocks and pings
furled among bald cypress
gets friendly waves and
given the right tools. fixing things
goes under, and kicks, kicks hard and pulls 
gun noises, something like kill-kill-kill-kill
have to be at the home in jefferson city
he breaks the surface and sucks in great gulps of air
he gave him, against all the bottles he’s ever emptied 
he is risen indeed!
he is risen! to which we said
he knows patti hated
he says, we could get brother spencer 
he showed a picture of a cancer cell—
he swims through the tug’s wake till he collapses 
he thinks. you can find the failing
he’d ask how the sermon was,	
he’d still have himself a sabbath 
he’ll drive the sheriff’s squad car 
he’s in the garage, bent 
his dead perverted father and the shoddy heart
his outrageous ultimatums gets sniped but swipes
his patience would wear like oil 
his stick sword across the neck of a hostage
his waist. leans in to the current. it presses 
how he would pick apart a problem
how she woke us every easter
how they’ll burn in the bath tonight
hunters tramp the muddy bogs 
i am driving to the moon
i am the essence of freshness
i could hold on my tongue
i fear change. it is the specter
i noticed the red flecks on the whisker-tips 
i read her my poem stung. amber smith
i remember clearly
i should have called my mother
if people would up their giving
in a hole in the backyard
in a swath of highway 
in all the films i’ve seen of vietnam
in harmony amid the stained-glass hues
in his faded flannel and blue jeans, handsome
in hot oil spreading itself
in search of ducks or other signs
in the belts and hoses
in the corner of the stained glass
in the donut shop parking lot
in the empty lot on the corner, an ideal battlefield
in the end is the durable mystery
in the gaudy plastic baskets
in the kitchen with the tall bottle
in the picture bible i had as a child
in the river’s skin, he thinks. he pitches forward
interpret the simile of a girl’s smile?
interpret the simile. a woman’s smile
into baghdad’s hidden basements. combustion:
into motion, some jaunty bounce
is still a riddle. i’m older. wiser?
it looked like a softball in his lung
it sits like the heavy orange stone
it was one of those sunday lunches when 
it’s more the steady thrum of machine gun fire
i’d pictured tiny explosive blasts, like bombs
keeps pulling and kicking, kicks across the current
kept in motion by its nearness
kicks against patti who’s left him and against 
knees bent, arms raised, the dance
knowing the resurrection of christ
last night in boise
leaving a jagged absence 
like a sphinx’s rubik’s cube, you
like a tenor, poetry my vehicle for desire
like flour and cardboard mixed
like the box fan patti had always run 
like the pantheon on olympus
like wisps of smoke from a censer
listen like she was an engine 
listens to the frantic pounding of his heart
living in smyrna, for still living
loft pine cones, empty their clips, shout
looked like the prickly sweetgum balls 
make love to their wives with
mason buxton has idled at the stop sign
maybe it’s the garlic
maybe later, after the owls’ game
maybe sometimes we get it
mince words, just as bill asked
moss like gray lace
my sister in some ridiculous hat
my wife’s white-socked feet
new hope baptist church, smyrna, louisiana
no one gave a red cent for jesus’s gold foot
not long after, the deacons dismissed 
of a child who has not learned
of bourbon he’d raced his charger
of carrot, tomato, spinach
of his mustache—he’d choked it back
of life. a stranger passing through
of our taste buds
of pine cones, backs scratched by well-aimed throws
of sorts—i’d come home to him sitting outside
of town, a green metal sign
of tugs pushing barges upriver, swims hard 
on his way home from work. it’s war again
on the muddy bank, glistening and exhausted
on the opposite wall, at sunset
on the refinery’s night shift
on your way again. cause, effect
once the girls were grown
one fourth of july. they watched fireworks 
or else the cilantro’s scent
or fallen angels in the lake of fire
or of the year at my aunt’s
or replace, and you’ll be
or simply a cratered satellite
our bodies make a single swaying temple
over the base of the wok
overhead, a flat white wafer
past a barge heaped with scrap metal. he was wrong
pine cone hand grenades, cypress knee ieds
plodding across the dark desert of sky
polish the gray vinyl tile of our kitchen
pulls me into her movements
pulls through the underwater rumble 
read her? my pen sang amber smith
real damage, like the night before 
reports their latest failure, the pulpit empty 
right by accident, and what’s left
rising, lifting the glass lid till it rattles
said it wasn’t worth the trouble
said so at the good friday service
seemed—some thought—the shadow of death
sharla thompson’s laughter when
she left smyrna: floyd flipped
she spins from fridge to stove
she stays the knife under my hand
she’s found in the crisper
shining like an oiled wound
slimmed with two days’ waning
smaller but brighter, not orange
sprayed through the streets of tikrit or ad-dawr
sticky with late summer sap. every day for a week
still riddles. older but not wiser
still. the chairman of the deacons rises
suppose martha will do some flowers
sure ain’t having it at the church
sweat under orange hard hats
talk up a game of cards, or settle
tenor or poetic vehicle? my desire
that cling to his legs, kicks himself for still 
that confounds and bewilders. me? women?
that fall in our yard, only softer
that hums with mosquitos 
that kept me awake at night
that sealed the tomb of christ
that, too, kept me awake at night
the holy spirit squeezed inside a chapel
the bulbous, roiling, fiery clouds of napalm
the deacons planned a repair drive
the deacons wished him well
the host’s dry starchiness
the kind of friction that will do 
the kitchen table, supper plates and all
the next month, the patch on the window 
the pastor. when bill green passed 
the pianist plays a hymn
the precise missiles that rode laser wires
the pungent onion, the ginger singed
the river is an artery, he a tiny white blood cell 
the river is black. he drifts on his back 
the sun once washed bright gold 
the syncopated strain of ammunition
the tumor, and the rest was likely black 
the velvety white skin of a neck rubbed blood red
their neckties and comb-over haircuts
they all will die eventually: the swordsman barking
they count their wounds: hands pocked with imprints
they don’t laugh. except at your jokes
things are fine, which is why 
this choir of fragrance chanting praise
this easter night with my wife
this is how it happens every time. they all know
through a white undergarment 
through that foot, as it does now 
to be looked down upon by deacons
to fear, of a priestess
to help her sleep. his father had brought him here 
to let her know we landed
to mason buxton’s or buster henry’s
to pock earth’s face, crater fields of battle
to pray about it. they bow their heads
to put on slacks, his good white shirt 
to rest at the end of the road
to the parish line to buy, but first 
to the planetary body i call home
to the tiny tongue-throned gods
to work the next day, which was not
tonight the pastor search committee 
two easters ago, cash for the glass
until his chest burns and head throbs and finally 
until they all lie still, suck in lungfuls of air
wafting its message i am green
was all he knew to do. she’d cry
was like a sphinx’s rubik’s cube. you
we fear change. it is the specter
welcome, riddled with lead shot
whatever progeny of earth and seed
when her husband bill was dying 
when we found live rabbits
where are the photos she took
where boys split themselves into troops and terrorists
where jesus’s left foot should be
where pistons pump to beat the engine’s drum
while i stand at the cutting board
while rice simmers on the back burner
white bubbles pressed together
who did she like? me? (no? yes?) how to 
who knows how long. the doctor said 
who, later, will convene in a kiss
will have ended in defeat, he’ll head over
windows down, he can hear them yelling where they fell
with interstellar highways
with power to sever limbs and scatter shrapnel
with slivers of red glass
with the salt from a drop of sweat—
women want you to come after them
women want you to come after them.
yet it seems weightless
you change your life, mr. rilke.
you must change your life, said rilke